---
title: Third_Post or (Has it really been two years?)
date: 2023-06-11T21:40:40-07:00
lastmod: 2021-05-04T21:40:40-07:00
author: David A.
avatar: /img/author.jpg
authorlink: https://downlowd.wordpress.com
cover: /img/acu1.jpg
categories:
  - Nostalgia
  - Travel
tags:
  - Travel
  - Georgia
# nolastmod: true
draft: false
---

Has it really been two years?

<!--more-->

Wow, my brain seriously cannot handle the amount of time that has past since the last "injury update" (boring!). As it happens, I have received news from my doctor that I have a herniated disc in my neck that feels like hell! But not to worry, 
I now have a day job and in time a nice doctor. Now that I am officially a head case, I would like to declassify the cladenstine operation code named "baby jesus" that took place in the Caucauses late last year. 
I suppose I should start with the day I received my SBA loan. It was Thursday, or maybe Friday. An email sent from a "Darla" or "Donna" or some feminine 60's name appeared immaculately at the top of my inbox with some inane subject. As I carefully opened it,
my eyes jumped to the line of total cash amount, the figure of which I will omit for tax purposes, suffice to say that I was more than pleasantly surprised and eager to trade stories with my belle de ville, Tiffany Cheung (Who will remain a major character in this bureacratic plot). 
I cannot remember my exact thoughts, but I would never have guessed that I would be spending the next 6 months planning and traveling through the Republic of Georgia. 
As we finalized our last minute travel details: passports, hotels (airbnbs), taxis, what have you, we boarded an Air Turkey plane at the SFO airport in the afternoon. I felt inadequate in comparison to the frequent fliers of a Turkish hue, not only physically but I soon came to realize that I had no bags of my own. After a few moments my imposter syndrome really began to set in.
It was not enough that we were visiting an IVF clinic to hire a surrogate, but that neither of us had even been to this secretive and ancient area in Asia and as a child of the Bush generation, I had to stay I was slightly mystified at my own eagerness, if you’ll allow a good euphemism. The clinic had arranged for us to meet and exchange our bodily fluids with them at a given time and we would take a rideshare there called “Bolt” each way from our airbnb in a neighborhood called “Didi Dighomi”, a newly built suburb of Tbilisi, the capital. I could only imagine a desolate and dreary Russianesque soviet block of apartments with bmw’s parked out front and municipal playgrounds. David, the two-koala, was in for a real treat. 

As our plane flew out of SFO, I felt a calming sense of freedom, not just existentially but an intellectual freedom that I hadn’t felt since my college years. Intellectual in the sense that I had complete control of the my decision making and that making decisions for me wasn’t really a skill, so much as a way of life, a philosophy that I had cultivated in the presence of an enlightening faculty who understood as well as I the conversions of great thinkers of time past. I had realized during this time that I was on a quest to find beauty in the world, ugly as I was convinced it was, I would have to prove to myself on some intellectual level that the world had an intrinsic beauty in it and that it would be found within the viewer after thoughtful reasoning and after carefully dispelling internal debate. The passengers on the flight no doubt were searching for similar things in their convoluted lives as we all trekked across the Atlantic like vessel full of sailors carrying riches and stories of old. And I was happy that this would be a story for baby jesus. 

We transferred in Istanbul and I tried to maintain a sense of composure as I wasn’t quite sure how I would react to our new surroundings, and what exactly we were supposed to do all day in this mysterious place. A few familiar looking travelers passed by our way and I felt better about the whole thing. 
The flight to Georgia was essentially a commuter flight that had a wide selection of various pop artists and the girl sitting next to us, although anxious, reminded me of my cousin. I felt a rush of excitement. The intercom came on in Turkish, then in Georgian. I had no idea what it said but we got off the plane anyway. The airport was small for a capital, it took us 5 minutes to reach the doors to the common area and boom. I was face to face with Georgians. Immediately, I was impressed. Georgian people are not particularly tall, like the Germans or Dutch, nor are they skinny or fat. They are, ‘well put together’, in some cases, ‘very’ well put together. The men have dark hair, almost black and the women have a wider range, some are blonde. The have sultry faces with some facial markings. The men have big eyebrows that move up and down with their vocal inflections and the women wear lipstick and a light layer of foundation. They wear lots of perfume, both and have a sort of disheveled, last minute look about them. They are all very, very stylish. They wear long black coats, clothes that wrap around their frames which are stocky and more or less, intrusive. They look you in the eye when they are speaking to you and they talk in very brief phrases at an audible volume and at a reasonable pace. They do not like small talk, have an overall attitude of concern and self-preservation. We had finally met our Airbnb guest, Imeda. Imeda drove us into town, and we discussed his country that he confessed was very poor, but he assured us we would really enjoy his flat because it is in a newly built building. He also told me he worked as an analyst for the government, so I knew right away that he was very smart, and I could probably guess that so were his countrymen. 
Imeda drove us up to the apartment building in an old European sedan and we made our beds and went to sleep, utterly exhausted. 
In the morning, I could’ve easily been confused for a kid on christmas day. I wanted so badly to see everything and smell the city, taste the food. We ran outside to get a taxi and after 2 minutes of arguing about which taxi we ran back inside and discussed our confusion for the next hour or so. Then we decided to order a bolt and head on into the town to visit the IVF clinic. The clinic was in a nice part of town, lined with book shops, cafes, a few thrift stores and several nice restaurants. We had some time to kill so we ransacked the thrift stores buying any old thing that looked like a sell and headed into Lika’s office to discuss business. “So you want IVF, yes?” this is the latest treatment in fertility. It involves artificially injecting a predetermined spermatozoa inside of a predetermined egg in order to spark reproduction and develop a fetus that will be transferred to the surrogate. So, we were a bit nervous to say the least. Fortunately for us, we have good, strong blood and any sort of worry was quite ridiculous. 
	After collection, we had a rendezvous with a few specialists who had told us some bad news about our paperwork. Apparently, there was some technicality that prevented us from working with them at that time. Tiffany became distraught and I took a bolt myself down to the clinic to speak with Lika. When I arrived her assistant had me wait for her phone call and I managed to give her a few words of advice. There was nothing else I could do and I went back to the apartment feeling empty handed and rather useless. But Tiffany and I are no pushovers. We knew that we had come to Georgia for a real reason in our quest for meaning and purpose and we weren’t going to let Lika Obaldze interfere with our plans no matter how amazing she thinks she is as a business person. 
	I had lost my appetite that night, but not my instinct for survival of my species. Tiffany had already sent me via message a new clinic located in a different part of the country. Excellent! I thought, but how are we ever going to get there. We barely managed to take a few bolt trips to the same part of the town each time and hardly left our flat, only to buy a few groceries at the local Georgian version of Costco. We were, in effect, prisoners of war. In some respect, we didn’t even have much of a right to walk down the street. 
	Our only option was to visit the clinic, since we were not very mobile and complete amateurs at the whole “fertility thing”. We’ll rent a car and drive there, I said. Tiffany said that sounded like the plan. I asked our airbnb host to recommend a car rental, and he gave me a nearby number. We picked up a prius and headed on down the highway.
	Batumi was the destination. It is about 8 hrs due west of Tbilisi along the Black Sea coast in a region called Adjara. It is known for it’s wine making, tobacco harvest and natural spring and mineral water. Many in the mountains practice Islam after the Ottoman occupation and you can find many mosques in the alpine region. The town itself is a collection of soviet and post-soviet architecture. Recently, it has become a hub for Russian, muslim and even Indian tourism. There are many hotels going up and the nightlife is quite remarkable.
	Our reconnaissance of sorts turned out to be a success. We stumbled into the clinic on our first morning there, after checking into the Aqua hotel at the far end of boulevard. With serene views of the deep blue Black sea, we were entranced in a dream, transported into a another time. The clinic received us with a giant warm welcome fit for a royal entourage. We sat down in the directors office, Lev, who assured us we would receive the top treatment for our baby jesus and that our money was good money here. I couldn’t have asked for a better experience. Our doctor Marina and her nurses were some of the most attentive and energetic people I’ve ever met. A husky Russian woman with fair skin and reddish brown hair, Marina sat down with us to discuss the biology of our procedure and the specifics for what Tiffany had hoped to get. 
	Ok! We agreed that they would be our clinic of choice. We drove back to Tbilisi and collecting some souvenirs and admiring the transcontinental freeway going in. Upon our return we packed up, kissed Tbilisi goodbye, and packed into the Mercedes van taxi that I had specially ordered for this very rare occasion. I was working on a body crushing hangover after drinking the rest of the cha-cha the night before to celebrate our new victory. Cha cha is the discards of vodka distillation for those wondering and its enough to bring a Russian to his knees. As the taxi weaved through traffic I felt my insides coming apart like a proper torture scene but it was the pounding of the bass playing some kind of Georgian opa techno that kept me in a wakeful state. I had never seen Tiffany so pensive as she sat idly next to me in the middle seat. 
	As we descended on Batumi, we said a few words of goodbye to our driver and exchanged enthusiasm for the word Sakartvelo, the original name of Georgia. We found a sweet Airbnb suite and headed back into the clinic. Since Tiffany is a bit older, she opted for a daily routine of hormone injections to optimize her egg sac. It consisted of chemical laboratory work such as mixing chemicals in small vials and utilizing a syringe to be injected into her stomach at optimum periods of the day. We continued to do this for a week or two at which point we would return to the clinic to have them scrape them out as well as collect my tiny green men. After that, we would be contacted with the results. 
	I can safely say, after merging our resources, they had collected 6 very good specimens. This is not to distract any reader from the scientific fact that 15 is usually best. However, we did what we could with what we had at the time. So, we are now left to pray to the almighty gods of fertility to find a surrogate that will grow one of our 6 specimens. There are no do overs. 
	Now, there was a new problem. I had no passport (Tiffany had thrown it out of the window and someone picked it up) and we needed to finalize our documents. That’s not all though, we also didn’t have any marriage license, shared bank accounts, or really anything showing that we lived together. In Georgia, you must show cohabitation to the courts to have a surrogate birth. They know what they’re doing. 
	Passport or no passport, we felt the spirits of Batumi’s past lingering on our shoulders and beckoning us towards the mountains of Adjara. We spent a day with a very interesting real estate agent named Guram who tipped us onto the minibus system of Adjara that goes as far as Goderdzi, the nearest mountain ski resort. I headed down to minibus central that morning and chopped it up with some of the bus drivers, who told me “Khulo, here, tomorrow” and that was official enough for me. 
	We boarded the minibus along with a few locals, an older and very talkative turkish man, and a big German man with his son. The route goes along a steep mountain road that drops off to the river below that flows down from the tallest peaks in the region, some of which have castles standing from the middle ages. We chose to sit on the side that didn’t look down. After about 5 hours we were in Khulo, a small mountain town covered in snow. Our host reeked of 16 year old body odor but took our cash and handed us the keys. We wandered into the town center for dinner and were greeted by a sweet old lady running the kitchen alone and serving up the best beef stew, sausages, cheese, grilled veggies, potatoes, Turkish coffee and Georgian cognac. It was the feast of true alpine champions. Across the restaurant was a taxi driver who we convinced to drive us up to Goderdzi for a reasonable fee at 8 am the next morning. Shenanigans were in order. 
	The taxi driver looked like a Russian man in his 50’s or so, with yellow teeth and dry rubbery skin. He could sure handle an AWD stick in some of the trickiest mountain sections anywhere though. 90 degree drops, oncoming traffic, cars getting stuck, 6 ft snow bumpers, and icy mud all the way up to the top. We arrived at midday, and set our stuff down in the nearest hotel where we found a good deal for a big room with 6 single beds. We stayed there the night and in the morning took to the slopes. At night, we ventured into the bar and enjoyed the winter festivities with the local band and fellow vacationers. At the end of the night, our thirst for adventure had been quenched and our fingers well pruned. 
	Back in town, we ascended to our room high above the city and battened the hatch for the storm that we inevitably brought with us. As the snow began to fall, we found ourselves in the middle of a Black Sea resort hotel on the 30th floor with a fantastic view of the second part of the hotel and a faint glimmer of the Black sea horizon. It was my first real blizzard and I couldn’t have asked Santa for anything better. But  things did not turn out to be such a wonderland. After ordering a mobile beer order from the local brewery, I discovered a strange scratching in my throat. I had contracted a virus and now it would only be a matter of time until it reached my beloved Tiffany and her frail body. 
	In a few days, and after purging the local pharmacy, I was on the up and feeling hopeful but just as I began to relax, Tiffany took a hit. She went down hard too because it only took a few days to immobilize her and leave her at her most lethargic. I began to worry a little, only because we didn’t know the healthcare system there and our plane was set to leave in the next few weeks which meant a lot of traveling, more stress and more medicine costs. I hit the pharmacy, this time even harder buying up some stuff I’d never even heard of, Russian, German anything. Some stuff worked, some didn’t, but after many chicken soups, rest and cold medicines, I saw that twinkle back in her eye again. 
	We took the first train out of there and she stayed bundled up like an eskimo. It took her another week or staying in bed to recover fully and I feel like we were never the same after that. We had already overstayed our visas by a good month or so, hiding in plain site from the authorities. All the while, I had lost two passports and made appointments at the embassy to replace both of them. The second one I almost didn’t get if it wasn’t for my charm and good looks. We were counting down the days to the airport, but spent the last few nights enjoying the town and local malls for anything we might’ve forgotten to bring home with us. 
	Well, that pretty much sums up our trip. Stay close for the next update on our second trip to Georgia.
	

